# Weather Prediction using CNN and LSTM 
Initially, we analyze the weather conditions in Thiruvananthapuram (TVPM),such as which type of weather is most common in TVPM, the most common temperature range in the city, temperature and humidity conditions throughout the year, etc. The temperature time series data in TVPM is then subjected to a Time Series Analysis to extract relevant statistics and other datafeatures.The RNN approach is used to anticipate temperature using timeseries forecasting. Multiple Convolutional and LSTM layers comprise ourforecasting model. They are frequently utilized and function exceptionallyeffectively in a wide range of situations, and LSTMs are specifically developed to avoid the problem of long-term reliance. It is their default behaviourto remember information for lengthy periods.First, two convolutionlayers are generated, each with two kernel sizes oftwo by 2. A max-pooling layer of two by two pool size is introduced to dropcertain data and take more relevant ones for further processing. The data isthen flattened, and the vectors are repeated 30 times to feed in more LSTMlayers. Then we add an LSTM layer with the tanh activation function, adropout layer to remove 20 percentage of the values, and two more similarLSTM layers with the tanh activation function. After that, we’ll add a Bidirectional LSTM layer with the relu activation function.The weather prediction model is coded in python and run using Jupyter notebook. The pandas library is used to read and process the CSV fileobtained, and matplotlib is used for data visualization and analysis of themodel. The seaborn library is used to produce the heat map as part ofthe data visualization. As part of pre-processing, the MinMaxScaler function from sklearn.preprocessing is used to scale the obtained data. Requird functions to generate the model is imported from the libraries TensorFlowand Keras.The model was compiled using the ADAM optimizer. ADAM is a modified version of the Stochastic Gradient Descent optimizer that has been shownto operate exceptionally well with Deep Learning models in several studies and used 50 epochs to train this weather prediction model
